=== PAGE 1 ===
What is FRAM?
FRAM, an acronym for ferroelectric random access memory,  
is a non-volatile memory that can hold data even after it is  
powered off. In spite of the name, FRAM is a ferroelectric memory 
and is not affected by magnetic fields as there is no ferrous 
material (iron) in the chip. Ferroelectric materials switch polarity 
in an electric field, but are not affected by magnetic fields. 
What are FRAM’s key advantages over Flash/EEPROM?
	
1.	Speed. FRAM has fast write times. Beyond all the other 
operations, the actual write time to an FRAM memory 
cell is less than 50ns. That is up to 1000x faster than 
Flash/EEPROM. Additionally, unlike EEPROM where you 
must have two steps to write data: a write command,  
followed by a read/verify command; FRAM’s write 
memory function happens in the same process as read 
memory. There is only one memory access command, 
one step for either reading or writing. So in effect, all the 
time associated with an EEPROM write transaction is 
eliminated in an FRAM-based smart IC.
	
2.	Low Power. Writes to the FRAM cell occur at low volt-
age and very little current is needed to change the data. 
With Flash, high voltages are needed. FRAM uses very 
low power – 1.5v compared to 10-14v for Flash. FRAM’s 
low voltage translates into low power usage and enables 
more functionality at faster transactions speeds.
	
3.	Data Reliability. Because only a small amount of energy 
is required, all the necessary power for FRAM is front-
loaded at the beginning of data write. This avoids  
“data-tearing,” a partial write of the data which occurs 
when Flash based MCUs are removed from the power 
source during a write cycle. Further, FRAM experiences 
100 Trillion read/write cycles or greater – far exceeding 
Flash or EEPROM write cycles.
	
4.	Unified memory means it’s the only technology to elimi-
nate boundaries between variable and constant data, 
which simplifies data handling, in-system programming 
and firmware image 
 
How does FRAM perform at high temperatures?
FRAM is a very robust and reliable memory technology,  
even at high temperatures. FRAM retains its data for more  
than 10 years at 85 degrees C, or 100 years at 25C. This far  
exceeds the requirements for most applications and  
FRAM FAQs
represents the robust data retention of FRAM. FRAM is also 
used in several automotive applications and has been qualified 
to withstand the extremely harsh conditions.
Does FRAM lose data after a read?
No. FRAM is a nonvolatile storage memory that retains its  
data even after the power is turned off. However, similar to  
commonly used DRAM (Dynamic Random Access Memory) 
found in personal computers, workstations, and non-handheld 
game-consoles, FRAM requires a memory restore after each 
read. A memory restore is done because FRAM memory cells 
require each bit accessed to be re-written in a refresh function. 
Because FRAM has a nearly inexhaustible write endurance 
(1015 write/read cycles), this is not a practical concern. 
Does new embedded FRAM memory technology raise 
security concerns?
FRAM is already used in financial smartcard applications, 
transit payment, and set-top boxes. Compared to existing 
EEPROM technologies, FRAM is more resistant to data  
corruption via electric fields and radiation. The extremely fast 
write times and the small 130 nanometer (nm) process node 
make it difficult for attackers to physically or electronically  
detect and monitor the internal data on the device. Furthermore, 
FRAM’s lower power consumption (and the fact that its read 
and write power consumption is identical) arguably make it a 
more difficult target to attack using differential power  
analysis techniques. Read more.
Are FRAM devices affected by magnetic fields?
A common misconception is that ferroelectric crystals contain 
iron or are ferromagnetic or have similar properties. The term 
“ferroelectric” refers to similarity of the graph of charge plotted 
as a function of voltage (Figure below) to the hysteresis loop 
(BH curve) of ferromagnetic materials. Ferroelectric materials 
are not affected by magnetic fields.

=== PAGE 2 ===
2  | FRAM FAQs	
Texas Instruments
How large of an electric field can an FRAM  
device withstand?
The FRAM memory cell operates by applying a switched  
voltage to sense and restore the data state. The ferroelectric 
film PZT is about 70nm thick. If the device is placed in a  
50 kV field at 1 cm, it is not possible to produce more than  
1V across the ferroelectric film. As a practical matter,  
FRAM devices are impervious to external electric fields.
Is FRAM affected by radiation or soft errors?
Volatile memories, DRAM and SRAM, use a capacitor to 
store charge or a simple latch to store state. These cells can 
be easily upset by alpha particles, cosmic rays, heavy ions, 
gamma, x-rays, etc. which cause bits to flip to an opposite 
state. This is called a soft error, since a subsequent write will 
be retained. The rate at which this occurs is called the Soft 
Error Rate (SER) of the device. Because the FRAM cell stores 
the state as a PZT film polarization, an alpha hit is very  
unlikely to cause the polarization to change a given cell’s 
state and the FRAM terrestrial SER is not even measurable.
	
This ‘radiation resistant’ characteristic of FRAM makes it  
attractive for use in several emerging medical applications.
What is TI’s focus in FRAM?
While TI is currently producing standalone FRAM memory 
devices, our internal focus is on
•	 Embedded FRAM (as a 2 mask adder to digital process 
flow). We have successfully designed arrays up to 32Mb. 
•	 FRAM as a true NVRAM technology to replace cache 
SRAM, DRAM, and Flash/EEPROM 
•	 Supporting 1.5V operation for low power applications 
While FRAM does provide unparalleled flexibility and benefits 
to customers, initial implementations and designs are  
optimized for targeted applications. It is important to  
emphasize that FRAM technology can support both high 
performance and low power applications; however, our 
current FRAM array designs are optimized for low power 
operation. Some items to consider with our initial FRAM 
designs are:
•	 They are best suited for devices operating below 25 MHz. 
However, as with all technology evolutions, we expect to 
design higher performance FRAM memory arrays in the 
future that support devices operating at much higher  
clock speeds. 
•	 As stated above, we expect that several of our initial  
FRAM memory devices will use 2T-2C configuration  
(2 cells are used for each bit of data). This ‘redundant’ 
methodology results in the crossover point where FRAM 
arrays are smaller than equivalent Flash memory in  
memories lower than 64KB – 128KB (depending on  
design requirements). Again we expect that this  
crossover point will increase in 1T-1C operation and in 
future process technology shrinks. 
•	 TI is also currently not targeting its embedded FRAM  
products for automotive applications, but with increased 
reliability and robustness of the memory signals, this  
should be possible very soon. 
Are F-RAM and FeRAM the same as FRAM?
Yes. F-RAM, FeRAM and FRAM are synonymous. Texas  
Instruments has chosen to use the acronym “FRAM”.
Are there commercially available FRAM products in  
the market?
FRAM is commercially proven in the semiconductor market 
with more than 150 million units sold by Ramtron (now  
Cypress) alone. Their F-RAM memory products have become  
a very popular choice in high quality industries such as  
automotive.
	
TI’s MSP430FR57xx  family of devices have been available 
in production quantities since March of 2012. On June 1, 2014 
TI launched the MSP430FR59xx and MSP430FR58xx families 
adding 34 devices to the MSP430™ FRAM family. 
Can I solder FRAM microcontrollers under the same  
conditions used for Flash memory based device?
Yes, our newest generation of devices can survive the same 
soldering and reflow conditions as any Flash part. Data  
retention on older FRAM memory, however, cannot be  
guaranteed when exceeding the specified maximum storage 
temperature (150˚C).
	
For soldering during board manufacturing it is required to 
follow the current JEDEC J-STD-020 specification with peak 
reflow temperatures not higher than classified on the device 
label on the shipping boxes or reels.
	
If hand soldering is required for application prototyping of 
MSP430FR57xx devices, peak temperature must not exceed 
250°C for a total of 5 minutes on any single device.
	
Only with MSP430FR57xx devices, programming of with 
user application code should be performed post reflow/ 
hand soldering.
	
Factory programmed information such as calibration values 
are designed to withstand the temperatures normally reached 
in the current JEDEC J-STD-020 specification.
Can I program FRAM microcontrollers prior to reflow  
soldering and under the same conditions as used for  
Flash memory based device?
The MSP430FR58xx and MSP430FR59xx family of devices, 
and all FRAM-based MSP430 products released in 2014 or 
later will support application programming of devices prior to 
reflow. For the FR57xx family only, application programming is 
recommended post reflow. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
	
Consult the product datasheet for device specific  
information on soldering recommendations. Also the FRAM 
Quality and Reliability Guide provides more information on 
soldering guidelines.
Will code that’s been written on other MSP430 devices be 
compatible with the new MSP430 devices with FRAM?
Yes! C code written for flash-based MSP430 devices can be 
used with the MSP430FR5xxx devices with FRAM. Since 
FRAM uses many of the same peripherals found on other 
MSP430 devices, the transition is very simple. We recommend 
reading the Migration Guides found in the product folder for 
more comprehensive information.www.ti.com/product/ 
msp430fr5969.
Is developing on FRAM completely different from  
working with a Flash-based MCU?
Not at all. The FRAM technology is completely transparent 
when it comes to writing code. The development environment 
is consistent and familiar. While programming and code  
development is identical to developing on a flash-based 
MSP430, the performance benefits are staggering, especially 
when the need is for in-system programming. In fact, FRAM  
improves on some traditional problems with data handling in 
flash. Unified memory eliminates boundaries between variable 
and constant data, which simplifies data handling, in-system 
programming and firmware image backup. Not only that, 
developers can write to FRAM at the bit level, further increasing 
programming flexibility.
Will my code and project port over from a Flash MSP430  
to an FRAM MSP430?
Yes, the FRAM devices are completely code compatible with 
the other Flash memory based MSP430 MCUs. They are not, 
however, pin compatible replacements. The FR5xx family has 
incorporated some new peripherals including a flexible  
clocking system and power management module. More details 
are published in the Migrating from the MSP430F2xx Family to 
the MSP430FR57xx Family (Rev. A).
	
© 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated
SLAT151
TI Worldwide Technical Support
Internet
TI Semiconductor Product Information Center Home Page
support.ti.com
TI E2E™ Community Home Page
e2e.ti.com
Product Information Centers
Americas	
Phone	
+1(512) 434-1560
Brazil	
Phone	
0800-891-2616
Mexico	
Phone	
0800-670-7544
	
Fax	
+1(972) 927-6377
	
Internet/Email	
support.ti.com/sc/pic/americas.htm
Europe, Middle East, and Africa
Phone
	
European Free Call	
00800-ASK-TEXAS 
	
	
(00800 275 83927)
	
International	
+49 (0) 8161 80 2121
	
Russian Support	
+7 (4) 95 98 10 701
	
Note: The European Free Call (Toll Free) number is not active in all ­countries.  
If you have technical difficulty calling the free call number, please use the 
­international number above.
Fax	
+(49) (0) 8161 80 2045
Internet	
www.ti.com/asktexas
Direct Email	
asktexas@ti.com
Japan
Phone	
Domestic	
0120-92-3326
Fax	
International	
+81-3-3344-5317
	
Domestic	
0120-81-0036
Internet/Email	
International	
support.ti.com/sc/pic/japan.htm
	
Domestic	
www.tij.co.jp/pic
Asia
Phone
	
International	
+91-80-41381665
	
Domestic	
Toll-Free Number
	
	
Note: Toll-free numbers do not support 
mobile and IP phones.
	
	
Australia	
1-800-999-084
	
	
China	
800-820-8682
	
	
Hong Kong	
800-96-5941
	
	
India	
1-800-425-7888
	
	
Indonesia	
001-803-8861-1006
	
	
Korea	
080-551-2804
	
	
Malaysia	
1-800-80-3973
	
	
New Zealand	
0800-446-934
	
	
Philippines	
1-800-765-7404
	
	
Singapore	
800-886-1028
	
	
Taiwan	
0800-006800
	
	
Thailand	
001-800-886-0010
Fax	
+8621-23073686
Email	
tiasia@ti.com or ti-china@ti.com
Internet	
support.ti.com/sc/pic/asia.htm
B090712
Important Notice: The products and services of Texas Instruments 
Incorporated and its subsidiaries described herein are sold subject to TI’s 
standard terms and conditions of sale. Customers are advised to obtain 
the most current and complete information about TI products and services 
before placing orders. TI assumes no liability for applications assistance, 
customer’s applications or product designs, software performance, or 
infringement of patents. The publication of information regarding any 
other company’s products or services does not constitute TI’s approval, 
warranty or endorsement thereof.
The platform bar and E2E are trademarks of Texas Instruments.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

=== PAGE 4 ===
IMPORTANT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER
TI PROVIDES TECHNICAL AND RELIABILITY DATA (INCLUDING DATASHEETS), DESIGN RESOURCES (INCLUDING REFERENCE 
DESIGNS), APPLICATION OR OTHER DESIGN ADVICE, WEB TOOLS, SAFETY INFORMATION, AND OTHER RESOURCES “AS IS” 
AND WITH ALL FAULTS, AND DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS AND IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD 
PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.
These resources are intended for skilled developers designing with TI products. You are solely responsible for (1) selecting the appropriate 
TI products for your application, (2) designing, validating and testing your application, and (3) ensuring your application meets applicable 
standards, and any other safety, security, or other requirements. These resources are subject to change without notice. TI grants you 
permission to use these resources only for development of an application that uses the TI products described in the resource. Other 
reproduction and display of these resources is prohibited. No license is granted to any other TI intellectual property right or to any third 
party intellectual property right. TI disclaims responsibility for, and you will fully indemnify TI and its representatives against, any claims, 
damages, costs, losses, and liabilities arising out of your use of these resources.
TI’s products are provided subject to TI’s Terms of Sale (www.ti.com/legal/termsofsale.html) or other applicable terms available either on 
ti.com or provided in conjunction with such TI products. TI’s provision of these resources does not expand or otherwise alter TI’s applicable 
warranties or warranty disclaimers for TI products.
Mailing Address: Texas Instruments, Post Office Box 655303, Dallas, Texas 75265
Copyright © 2020, Texas Instruments Incorporated

